1 | Convocation of the Assembly
2 1 Subhuti Requests the Teaching
3 I The Core of Mahayana' Practice
The Buddha said to Subhuti,
... ultimately, no sentient beings have been liberated. Why? Subhuti, if bodhisattvas have any notions of a self, a person, a sentient being or a life span, they are not bodhisattvas."
4 | Practice Charity Without Attachment
5 | The Way to Ultimately Recognize the Buddha
thathagata has no physical appearance
All appearances are illusory
6 | True Faith Is Precious
it is rare someone understands the diamond sutra quickly
if you understand the diamond sutra immediately
you are free from the notions of a self, a person, a sentient being and a life
you are free from the notions of dharmas and non-dharmas
7 1 No Attainment, No Teaching
The Dharma taught by the Tathagata cannot be grasped or explained.
It is neither Dharma nor non-Dharma. How is this so?
It is because all the saints and sages are distinguished by the unconditioned dharma.
8 | Merits Obtained Accord with the Dharma
9 | All Forms Are Formless
one who abides peacefully in non-contention
10 | Adorn a Buddha World
bodhisattvas and mahasattvas should give rise to a pure mind
that does not abide in form, sound, smell, taste, touch or dharmas
11 | The Merit of Unconditioned Dharma Is Great
12 | Revere the Teaching as Buddha
13 | Uphold the Sutra Accordingly
the diamond prajna paramita is not prajna paramita therefore it is called prajna paramita
14 | Attain Nirvana Without Attachment
Those who relinquish all appearances and notions are called buddhas?
15 | Merits of Upholding this Sutra
16 | Purgation of Bad Karma
17 | Ultimately There Is No Self
18 | All Is Seen in Essence
wisdom eye
19 | The Way to Benefit the World
20 | Transcend Physical Forms and Attributes
21 | There Is No Dharma to Teach
22 | There Is No Dharma to Attain
23 | Cultivate the Good with a Pure Mind
24 | The Unsurpassed Merit of Teaching the Sutra
25 | Liberate Without the Notion of Liberating
26 | Dharma Body Is Formless
27 | Attainment Without Nihilistic Views
28 | Neither Accumulate nor Cling to Merits
29 | Deportment Is Always Serene
30 | One Wholeness in Nature
31 | Know and Practice Without Attachment
32 | All Dharmas Are Illusions
"Subhuti, if a person were to fill countless worlds with the seven jewels and give them away in charity, and if a good man or good woman, having made the bodhisattva resolve, reads, recites, studies, follows and expounds to others this sutra, even a mere four-line verse, the latter's merits far exceed the former's. How should one expound to others? Without attachment, abiding in stillness and suchness. Why?
All conditioned dharmas
Are like a dream, an illusion, a bubble, a shadow, Like dew or a flash of lightning;
Thus we shall perceive them.
With this, the Buddha concluded the sutra. The elder Subhuti, other bhikshus, bhikshunis, upasakas, upasikas," heavenly and human beings, asuras and other beings of the world, having heard the Buddha, were all filled with immense joy; they accepted and followed the teaching faith-fully.